https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/bi-wife-energy

bi-wife-energy

About
Bi Wife Energy is a slang term popularized by a satirical song from the band Cringe and the Lizards first posted to TikTok in 2021 that describes a general stereotype of heterosexual men married to bisexual women. The term is generally used as a way to lightly tease such men but characterizes them as supportive of the queer community and their wife's bisexuality.


Origin
On March 6th, 2021, TikTok user @cringelizard[1] (the account for the band Cringe and the Lizards who created the track) posted a TikTok in which they made up a song about a man with "Bi Wife Energy," gaining over 655,000 likes in three years (shown below).

[Verse 1]
Well, to be honest, I'm a hetero guy
But I really try to be a good ally
And it ain't no secret
Lemme tell you why
It's because I love my wife
And my wife is bi

[Chorus]
Bi wife energy, he has bi wife energy
Bi wife energy, yeah, he has bi wife energy

[Verse 2]
Now sometimes people assume I'm queer
And I have to say, hey! just a straight guy here
But I get it a lot, and I don't mean to be cruel
It's just that my wife is a bisexual

On March 13th, Cringe and the Lizards posted a video in which they debuted a fully produced version of the song, gaining over 579,000 likes in three years (shown below, left). On June 3rd, they revealed with another song that they had written "Bi Wife Wnergy" about Supernatural star Misha Collins (shown below, right).

Spread
After @cringelizard debuted the produced version of the song, others on TikTok used it to joke about characters who fit the "Bi Wife Energy" mold. For example, on March 25th, 2021, TikToker @mynameisalexhii[2] used it to joke about Donkey from Shrek, gaining over 234,000 likes in three years (shown below, left).

On March 19th, TikToker @beatrizpinto381[3] used it for Marshal from How I Met Your Mother, gaining over 121,000 likes in a similar timeframe (shown below, right).
Over the following years, the term began seeing practical discussion and more official definitions. On June 30th, 2022, Cosmopolitan[4] posted an Instagram graphic with a story from a woman who said her husband's "bi wife energy" helped her feel more sexually active, gaining over 1,400 likes in two years (shown below).
On October 10th, 2023, a deleted Redditor posted to the subreddit /r/bisexual[5] inquiring about the term, to which another deleted Redditor defined it as, "guys who are straight but great allies and generally open-minded – who may seem ordinary themselves but associate with "weird" people. Super friendly and secure in themselves, not trying to satisfy some kind of gender role setup" (shown below).

